The main aim of the application is to reduce the trash around the world. The garbage produced each year is over a billion. The numbers
are increasing dramatically. There has not been significant improvement over the years and campaigns regarding trash reduction have not
shown to be successful. The main reasons associated with the unsuccesful outcome of the campaigns have mainly been people saying they
do not have the time to recycle, it is too hard, they do not have the equipment or that they are not knowledgable enough about it. The 
Trashocated application was built to resolve those issues and focus on making recycling a norm and an everyday habit in people's lives in
the fastest and easiest way possible. Hence, it is implimented in a mobile application form because it is easy to use by all backgrounds
and ages and it does not require any other device other than one's smartphone. By focusing on providing services to make recyling faster
and more efficent it will encourage people to recyle resulting in the trash-rate to reduce.

Another important goal of the Trashocated application is to provide working experience. By allowing people to volunteer for the Trashocated
company it allows them to gain hands-on experience as well as learning the fundimental skills required to work in a company. This also 
encourages the volunteers to pay attention to the problems around them more. They will see the importance and impact of recycling and will
impliment it in their lives as well as telling their friends and family about it which increases awareness. The volunteers will not only
be rewarded with the satisfaction of knowling that the work they do is valuable but it they will also be rewarded with points that they 
could use to purchase items from the store function of of the application. The volunteers will also be given the opportunity to visit
different charities and pave the way for a future job there.

The application also supports charitable causes. The users of the application have the choice to donate their reward points to their
selected charity. The reward points will either be turned into cash or will be used to purchase products from the application's store
function. This is the definition of hittting two birds with one stone as it is both resolving the world's litter issue as well as helping
a charity. It will also encourage the people who have not considered helping charities to learn more about them and contemplate it.


There are a few minor but honourable effects to mention as well. firtly the application's strive to raise awareness amongst people and open 
their minds to the problems around them even if the problem does not effect them directly. Secondly, Making recyling a habbit as it is important for it
to be continous. Recyling for a while then not continuing it will not help the envoirment hugely. Maximum result will only be achieved if
recyling is done regurarly. Moreover, the store implimented in the application is consisted of only recycled items. Hence, the use of
recyled items will be regulated amongst people and it will also encourage more people to consider purchasing items that have already been
used or have been made using recycled items. 

