Plans and Progress
Global warming, destruction of habitants, increase of greenhouse gasses as well as the release of harmful chemicals all have the same 
source, which is the rise in number of trash being piled up every year. The garbage produced each year is over a billion. The numbers are
increasing dramatically. The problem is, humans cannot stop making trash. Manufacturing, transport, industrialisation and urbanization are
only some of the major causes of solid waste. Basically, humans will cause waste if they plan to continue living and it is an unavoidable
fact. However, there is a simple solution to this matter. Recycling has been proven to have a huge impact in neutralizing the effects of
wastes.
According to the Cambridge dictionary, in definition recycling is the act of collecting and changing old material and reusing them.
In other words, instead of trying to stop an unavoidable behaviour, let it happen but defuse the negative effects of it in a way that 
is no longer a treat. Meaning, making trash no longer related to global warming, destruction of habitants, increase of greenhouse gasses
as well as the release of harmful chemicals etc. However, this success might make one falsely believe that the problem is solved and
the earth is saved but there is another issue here, one person alone cannot single handily recycle the trash that is being made in the
world. To see the true impact of recycling and to actually say that there is a solution to negative effects of making trash, it requires
everyone to be involved. Recycling is only truly effective if it is done by every house hold, by every company and manufacturer and if 
it is done regularly, otherwise, it is as useless as trying to make no trash at all.
The effects of not recycling has been clearly making a huge impact on people’s lives. If we do not recycle the world will be
overpopulated with pollution and pollutants, the trash will cause lands to be toxic and inhabitable, non-renewable energy will be lost 
for good and humans and animals will die due to diseases. To put it in short, not recycling will not only destroy the earth, but will 
also kill everything and everyone on it. Newer generations will have to pay back for the actions of older generations as they will be 
the ones being affected by the inconsiderate and selfish behaviour of the people who do not live sustainably today. 
Even though people have been introduced to recycling there has not been significant improvement over the years and campaigns regarding 
recycling have not shown to be successful. The main reasons associated with the unsuccessful outcome of the campaigns have mainly been 
people saying they do not have the time to recycle, it is too hard, they do not have the equipment or that they are not knowledgeable 
enough about it. Hence, the Trashocated application was built. It aims to resolve those issues and focus on making recycling a norm and
an everyday habit in people's lives in the fastest and easiest way possible. Therefore, it is implemented in a mobile application form
because it is easy to use by all backgrounds and ages and it does not require any other device other than one's smartphone. 
The goal is to focus on providing services that make recycling faster and more efficient as it will encourage people to recycle resulting
in the trash-rate to reduce. By removing the barriers that had stopped people from recycling before, there will not to be a reason for
one not to recycle. 

The ‘Trashocated’ application works to increase recycling amongst people by making the process much simpler. The application has two main
goals. First to get users to dispose their trash correctly and secondly, reward them with points when they successfully do so. The
application has a locating feature installed that will identify the person’s location and estimate the nearest recycle bin to them. With 
that it will estimate the distance between the two and give information about the fastest route to get to the place. The application also
has a “To -do” function installed where the user enters the dates and times of when they wish to dispose of their garbage.
The application will send a reminder when it is time to do that task. The application is also synced with the weather application to
ensure that the weather is suitable to go out. 
Another benefit of the installed to-do list is that it is compatible with other calendar and to-do list installed on the phone. The
application will analyse to see when the person is free based on their schedules and it will the available dates and times to the user
as a list when they open the “To-do” page. If the user changes or adds a plan to their schedule in another application but that date is
the same date to which they had planned to recycle their trash, Trashocated will notify the user that there has been an overlap on that
date and to make changes. It will also suggest the closest available date and time to the date and time they had previously chosen.
In case the person does not have the time to go to the bins, the application will recommend some pre-chosen locations to the user.
The pre-chosen locations are locations where the volunteers can access easily. If the recommendations are acceptable by the user, they
will click on the “okay” button. Then the volunteer that is assigned to that area will be notified to collect and dispose of the trash.
Alternatively, the user can choose their preferred location by dropping a pin on the location they wish to leave their trash and the 
first volunteer to accept that request will be assigned to dispose of the trash. Previously, Trashocated also provided the benefit of 
having trash disposed in the comfort of the user’s own home. If the user had the mini home assistant installed, they could choose to 
allow the volunteers to either enter their home and collect their trash from inside their house or pick up the trash they have left 
outside the house. However, amongst discussing and evaluating the pros and cons of having this feature, it was concluded that there is a
lot of controversy around that matter. Hence, it was decided to remove that feature for the time being and allow the technology for that
to be established amongst people first. 
Moreover, the team decided that it was best to not provide the mini assistant. This means that the Trashocated company will not been sell
ing a mini home assistant of their own brand as it intended to be a recycling company not a technology company. Moreover, the purpose of
Trashocated was to create convenience and it highlights the fact that all you need is your smartphone, hence, selling a product to make 
the application work neglected our whole idea. However, we will still provide programs that are compatible with mini-home assistants for
those who already have one. The reason for that is the huge benefits that came with it.
A benefit of the mini assistant is that we highly focus on is that it will be synced with the user’s smart fridge. It will identify the
potential recyclable items that are in the fridge and will list it in the application. This will make the process to identify recyclable
items much easier to the users and it will also decrease the chances of the user forgetting to recycle an item.
Additionally, the mini assistant will be a great help to the elderly as it will have speech recognition installed and the user can assign 
volunteers to come and collect their trash by only speaking to the home assistant. The home assistant will also notify users 10 mins
before the volunteers arrive to ensure that the user is still happy to have volunteers from the company enter their homes.
To reach the goal and purpose of this application the users’ behaviour to dispose properly of the garbage must be continues. Hence, the 
reward and store section are added to this application. The application is notified vie censors when the user discards of their rubbish 
accordingly and will add points to their account. There will be a list of items in the store section which includes clothing, housewares 
and stationary items all of which are made with recycled material. This action will slowly help the users’ behaviour to change from 
buying substances made from raw material to buying recycled items through the Translocated company.
Furthermore, the app is also beneficial to charities and other in need matters. There are several different charity organizations which 
have an agreement with the Translocated company. The agreement suggests that not only will the Translocated company financially assist 
to those charity organizations, but the users of the company will also be given the choice to donate as they see fit through the reward 
system of the application. This process will promote humanity as well motivate others to join. The application also consists of minor 
elements. One of the less highlighted part of the application is the volunteering opportunities it will create for people. The volunteers
will learn through making a difference and seeing firsthand the difference their work has made. The volunteers will be designated to 
pick up the trash left by users at the alternative locations and they will also be given the opportunity to visit big charitable 
organizations and comprehend the way those organizations work. Special perks will be given to volunteers as well as rewards,
additionally they will also be given the freedom to choose when they want to work since there is no set time to when the users will 
drop off their garbage. Therefore, they will gain unique experience without being under the pressure to work in specific times.
A feature we decided to add to the application is working hand in hand with manufactures. Factors and companies play a huge role in 
the production of waste. By making sure that they recycle, we would see huge benefit.  Our initial idea was to create a reward system 
that would indicate how eco-friendly they are but we came to realise that there are many systems designed for that already and it does 
not encourage people. Hence, we came up with the idea to reward users when they use eco-friendly companies. Rewards include points being
given to users or discounts provided by the company to Trashocated users. The point of this is to motivate users to use more eco-friendly
companies without them feeling the pressure of having to think what’s eco -friendly and what is not. They just simply get discounts and 
offers on certain companies which would provoke them to buy from those specific companies that happen to be eco-friendly. As a result,
the companies that are not eco-friendly will lose revenue and will have to adjust themselves by also becoming eco-friendly so that 
they could be able to compete with other companies and not lose money. We do not intend to force companies to become eco-friendly,
we will only focus on those that are eco-friendly because not only do they share the same vision as us, but also we do not have to
put resources into convincing them. 
There were some more problems faced other than the ones mentioned above. The main issue is the health risks associated with it.
Trash could be toxic or impure and if they are not handled properly, it could cause serious health problems. An example of that
is the steel used in buildings in Taiwan which have caused gamma poisoning for the past 12 years (Futureofworking.com, 2018). 
Stringent and more secure implementations must take place to ensure that all staff and volunteers are safe and are not at any
risk but that is hard to do as we will not know what is in the bag until they are examined. 
Moreover, recycling itself also causes trash. The factories recycling the items require energy and also produce trash. Therefore, it 
is important to do the maths and make sure we are doing more good than harm. 
Upon researching, it was evident that recycling itself is very costly and three times more than to put the trash in landfills. However,
we have overcome this problem by recruiting volunteers and rewarding them with points and discounts instead of paying labour.











Refrences:
Futureofworking.com. (2018). 13 Advantages and Disadvantages of Recycling [online] Available at: https://futureofworking.com/13-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-recycling/ [Accessed 9 Oct. 2018].
